# maxmsp
download: https://we.tl/t-BWlXPgGpfs
“The Contagion Synthesizer” is a humble mirror to our current world situation. Our planet, our societies, as we know them, have changed. The vast majority of the human population now lives on lock down. Facing a highly contagious disease, our lives have been disrupted, and our daily interactions have been put into questioning. The virus illustrated in this piece, also known as Covid-19, disrupted the daily routine and activities of the entire planet. This forced disruptance of our daily live can also be seized as an opportunity: to take a step back and reflect on our actions as a society. How are our actions, during this pandemic but also throughout our lives, affecting others?  Forced to stay home, we are unable to consume or interact face to face. How often we bought consumer goods, or spent time with one another is now highlighted. Now that those needs cannot be fulfilled, we realize how often we feel those urges that were once felt so often our brains even fail to recognize them anymore. Some things we were taking for granted can now be seen as small luxuries. The frivolity of life has been highlighted. Nothing is permanent nor totally safe.  A king, unsatisfied with the maps made of his kingdom, insists on having made a map so detailed it ended up being the size of the kingdom itself. In this allegory, Jorge Luis Borges depicts a paradox: the perfect map is a map that contains all the reality of the territory it depicts. However, if the map is as large as the terriotry, it becomes unusable and has therefore no value. This is a reality of complex models: some systems are so complex they need to be represented by simpler schemes if one is to make them accessible. Most human daily interactions are now forced online. “The Contagion Synthesizer” depicts an simplified online format of contagion. It is an interactive synthesis and sample based device, that allows you to play the contagion game by pressing your computer keyboard keys. It provides a temporary escape from the grim reality of 2020, while also reminding you that you cannot know if you are infected before pressing that key, emphasizing that, in reality as well, you can also be contagious without being aware of that fact, and should therefore be wary of interacting with others. Sharing your germs or sharing data is potentially dangerous, following a Schrödinger's paradox: you cannot know if your data is corrupted before pressing the computer keyboard key. If you hear speeches from politicians around the world, it means your data is contaminated and you are feeding this corrupted data to the synthesizer. Be careful!  The pandemic also highlighted something us humans tend to forget: the entire world, east to west, is connected, not only via internet but also physically, and what happens in Wuhan, China affects Remscheid, Germany. Every individual on the planet is connected, and your “data” could affect anyone all around the globe. Your data can touch politicians all over the world. “The Contagion Synthesizer” urges you to think about the consequences of your daily actions on the planet and its inhabitants. “The Contagion Synthesizer” wants to remind you to be mindful of how your actions affect others today, but also tomorrow, and in the foreseeable future.  The music synthesized by the contagion synthesizer is covered by speeches from German chancellor Angela Merkel, French president Emmanuel Macron, Italian president Sergio Matarella, United Kingdom prime Minister Boris Johnson, and United States of American president Donald Trump, urging, one after the other, their citizens to stay at home and describing the new policies coming into effect. French president Emmanuel Macron even mentions entering “a time of war” against this discrete and silent killer. Those speeches evoke our current reality and resonate and echo one another. They are the narrators to our daily reality and highly uncertain future.  Marcel Duchamp said “C'est le regardeur qui fait le tableau“ ( “The painting is made by the person watching it“),  “The Contagion Synthesizer” is a soundpiece created by the viewer. 
